---
layout: post
title: TEST
excerpt: The planet of Theia.
---
Theia

Ages ago, there may have been a twin planet to the Earth. The moon is interestingly tidally locked with the Earth, meaning one face is always facing the Earth, suggesting that perhaps the moon was once a part of the Earth and, like the early planets, simply coalesced from many pieces of rock. It's theorized that a twin planet, Theia, about the same size of Mars, had a similar orbit to the Earth that intersected Earth's and at some point collided with Earth, creating the moon and shattering in the process.
But what if it had not collided with Earth, what if it survived and continued on as a second goldilocks planet in our solar system? What if the same chemicals and electric charges that fused the first amino acids on Earth existed on Theia? What if life arose in parallel on Theia?

It'd be fucking awesome material for a story that's what. There's a whole realm of possibilities to explore - how do differences in Earth and Theia affect life arising on these planets? What if Theia reaches the Industrial Age and the Information Age before Earth, a 200 year span of advancement (tiny on the cosmological scale) and conquers Earth before we even discover North America? What if photosynthesis never evolves, the Great Oxygenation Event never occurs on Theia, and anaerobic life reigns? Or silicon based life, instead of carbon, or sulfur consuming life?

What's interesting about Theia, however, is not how life arises, not the nuances of the science behind how it is different, nor how this science contributes to their differences. Rather it's the differences themselves, and the interactions with Earth, that make Theia interesting. Ultimately every narrative is a narrative of a struggle of a hero or heroes whom the reader can relate to. People will relate to the stories of the struggles with Theia, it's effects on us, they will look at their lives and imagine how they'd be different if beings like us, our neighbors, descended from capsules onto our surface and welcomed themselves into our human lives. Theia will be dark, the origin story clouded, the details of the beings, the Theians, even obscured. Theia will be a foil that can be used to critique and analyze life on Earth, to force society into unexplored situations to examine the consequences and to bring to light the underlying moral assumptions and values that drive our lives on Earth today. How will society handle a more advanced, more powerful race than ours? Will Earth band together, its industries brutally working to match Theia? Would the Cold War be shortened by this threat in the sky, and would nuclear war occur when the threat of mutually assured destruction is removed and the enemy is a planet removed from us? Or perhaps we reign over Theia - do human rights extend to all sentient life? Do we colonize and force adaptation or do we learn from them? Perhaps one civilization turns the other into a slave caste - what is the story of that rebellion, of that struggle to be recognized despite being consider less intelligent, less fit to rule? What of religion?
There are so many parallels to explore - imperialism and Westernization, African slavery and eugenics and "negroid" pseudoscience, human experimentation in WWII, slave labor and concentration camps, genocide. And the larger themes (and the Sagan influence) are clear too - is there a greater purpose for humanity? Should we look at our pale blue dot and reconsider life on Earth, should we move on and terraform different planets?

The narrative of Earth and Theia should be told as a set of vignettes, each describing the struggle and differences between the two worlds, one as they arise and ancients see lights in the sky mirroring theirs, one as they two come to meet, one exploring a slave caste system one imposes on the other, one exploring the militarization of the entire planet against the other - each told from the perspective of very intimate, human moments. Perhaps lovers torn apart by slavery, perhaps the internal struggle of a leader, perhaps the story of a rebellion on a larger scale, told from a step back but highlighting the human or Theian spirit to live. Perhaps the story of the mechanical or nuclear war between the two and the toll it takes on the planets beneath. The stories can switch between two styles, one an impressionistic, bordering on magical realism style narrative. Removed and told from one step back, this style captures the larger scale ideas as blurred lights and signs and colors - the spark of civilization, the dull explosions of war, the flames of rebellion, the grinding of technology. The second style is a look at the emotions, the pain and the struggle of life, both common and extraordinary, to show that despite extreme and different circumstances, life remains the same - decisions have to be made, sacrifices occur, romance arises and love still occurs. It's the human - or better, the Theian - element of things. While the first is a painting of broader ideas, designed to incite curiosity and awe and thought, the second is a set of harder realities and harsh questions on morality, on the circumstances of our lives and how society and greater forces and ideas govern our lives.
